This is a test file for the mini-RAG API upload endpoint. 
You can train and use a transformer model to predict the next token in a
sequence where the sequence is coordinates of vertices on a 3D mesh surface.
Such a generative model can produce 3D geometries by predicting the next set
of vertices and faces within a 3D space that form the desired geometry.
However, the geometry would require thousands of vertices and faces to achieve
a smooth surface.
This means for each 3D object, you need to wait for a long time for the
generation to complete, and the results may still remain low fidelity. Because of
this, the most capable models (i.e., OpenAI’s Shap-E) in producing 3D geometry
train functions (with many parameters) to implicitly define surfaces and volumes
in a 3D space.
Implicit functions are useful for creating smooth surfaces or handling intricate
details that are challenging for discrete representations like meshes. A trained
model can consist of an encoder that maps patterns to an implicit function.
Instead of explicitly generating sequences of vertices and faces for a mesh,
conditional 3D models can evaluate the trained implicit functions across a
continuous 3D space. As a result, the generation process has a high degree of
freedom, control, and flexibility in producing high-fidelity outputs, becoming
suitable for applications that require detailed and intricate 3D geometries.
Once the model’s encoder is trained to produce implicit functions, it leverages
the neural radiance fields (NeRF) rendering technique, as part of the decoder, to
construct 3D scenes. NeRF maps a pair of inputs—a 3D spatial coordinate and a
3D viewing direction—to an output consisting of an object density and RGB
color via the implicit functions. To synthesize new views in a 3D scene, the
NeRF method considers the viewport as a matrix of rays. Each pixel
corresponding to a ray, originates from the camera position, and then extends in
the viewing direction. The color of each ray and associated pixel is computed by
evaluating the implicit function along the ray and integrating the results to
calculate the RGB color.
Once the 3D scene is computed, signed distance functions (SDFs) are used to
generate meshes, or wireframes of 3D objects by calculating the distance and
color of any point to the nearest surface of the 3D object. Think of SDFs as a
way to describe a 3D object by telling you how far away every point in space is
from the object’s surface. This function gives a number for each point: if the
point is inside the object, the number is negative; if it’s on the surface, the
number is zero; and if it’s outside, the number is positive. The surface of the
object is where all points have the number zero. SDFs help to turn this
information into a 3D mesh.
Despite the use of implicit functions, the quality of outputs is still inferior to
human-created 3D assets and may feel cartoonish. However, with 3D GenAI
models, you can generate the initial 3D geometries to iterate over concepts and
refine 3D assets quickly.